---
title: "Ch5 HW2"
date: 2019-11-20T09:16:01-06:00
weight: 52
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
---

The purpose of this homework is for you to practice your Lisp
program-writing skills. If you find yourself writing "Racket code",
ask for help before it is due! 

1. (SC, 4.22) Write a predicate BOILINGP that takes two inputs,
TEMP and SCALE, and returns T if the temperature is above the
boiling point of water on the specified scale. If the scale is
FAHRENHEIT, the boiling point is 212 degrees; if CELSIUS, the
boiling point is 100 degrees. Also write versions using IF and
AND/OR instead of COND.

2. (SC, Chapter 5) Write a program to return the distribution of
   results generated by N=100 calls to the function below. The
   distribution should be an association list of the form `'((heads 48)
   (tails 49) (edge 3))`. After you do that, explain if you believe
   the `coin` function works as intended.

```lisp
(defun coin ()
  (cond ((< (random 101) 50) 'heads)
        ((> (random 101) 50) 'tails)
        (t 'edge)))
```

3. Write `(beforep x y input)` which returns true if `x` appears
   before `y` in the `input` list.

4. (SC, 6.18) Write a function ADD-VOWELS that takes a set of letters as input and
adds the vowels `(A E I O U)` to the set. For example, calling ADD-
VOWELS on the set `(X A E Z)` should produce the set `(X A E Z I O
U)`, except that the exact order of the elements in the result is
unimportant.

5. (SC, 7.7) Write a function `upside-down` that takes in a list
   such as `'(up down up up)` and flips each element, returning
   `'(down up down down)`. The only elements in the list will be up
   and down. Method to use: write an anonymous flipper function and
   use `mapcar`.
   
6. (SC, 7.8)  Write a function that takes two inputs, `xs` and `k`, and returns the first
number in the list `xs` that is roughly equal to `k`. Let’s say that "roughly
equal" means no less than `k − 10` and no more than `k + 10`. Use `loop`.

7. Rewrite your answer to the previous function using `find-if`.

8. Get the paper handout and do (SC, 7.10).
